(DOCSP-19020): React Native JS SDK refresh of page "Open a Synced Realm" (#1420)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/react-native/examples/open-and-close-a-realm.txt

.. _react-native-open-close-realm:

=======================================
Open & Close a Realm - React Native SDK
=======================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. _react-native-open-a-local-realm:

Open a Local Realm
------------------

.. include:: /includes/js-open-a-local-realm.rst

.. _react-native-open-a-synced-realm:

Open a Synced Realm
-------------------

.. include:: /includes/react-native-open-a-synced-realm.rst

.. warning:: 

   When attempting to synchronize a {+realm+} while not connected to 
   the Internet, you must pass ``Realm.open()`` a :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>`

>    object with ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior``. If you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   object that contains the ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` properties. If you 
```
Nitpick: "with" is not as clear as it could be, consider using "that contains... properties" instead

SyncConfiguration to automatically open the realm after a timeout period elapses. You
can use a single :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>`
for both ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` 
that contains the following property values:  

- ``type``: "downloadBeforeOpen"
- ``timeOut``: <time in milliseconds>
- ``timeOutBehavior``: "openLocalRealm"

These properties force the ``Realm.open()`` method to return an open {+realm+} after ``timeOut`` milliseconds, or when the {+realm+} has completely downloaded, whichever comes first. 
If the {+realm+} doesn't finish downloading before the timeout, the initial realm sync continues in the background. For example: 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/open-and-close-a-realm.codeblock.open-synced-realm-config.js
  :language: javascript

This configuration is also useful if you're attempting to sync in an environment 
where it's uncertain if the user has an Internet connection. The client attempts 
to sync until the end of the the ``timeOut`` period, and then opens the local {+realm+},

> even if the it never connects to the server. 

Reviewer: Looks like the second sentence is still here, can we remove it?

Author: thanks, i think i missed the 2nd part of your suggestion 😅

> where it's uncertain if the user has an Internet connection. The client attempts 
> to sync until the end of the the ``timeOut`` period, and then opens the local {+realm+},
> even if the it never connects to the server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where it's uncertain if the user has an Internet connection.
```
Adding this suggestion so you can incorporate all of these suggestions via the GitHub UI if you'd like.

.. example::
  
  The following example shows opening a synced {+realm+} with a 
  ``Configuration`` object using a predefined ``Car`` :doc:`schema </sdk/node/examples/define-a-realm-object-model>`, 

>   the currently logged in user, a partition value of "MyPartition", and a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the currently logged in user, a partition value of "myPartition", and a 
```
The partition value mentioned here still does not match the value in the example.

  to work with the local {+realm+} if the device is doesn't fully sync within the ``timeOut``
  period of 1000 milliseconds.  

  .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/open-and-close-a-realm.codeblock.open-synced-realm-offline-with-car-schema.js
    :language: javascript

.. _react-native-open-immediately-with-background-sync:

Open Immediately With Background Sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you want to connect to the {+realm+} immediately and sync data from the server 
in the background, you must use  a a :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` that includes ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` 
properties. This configuration is useful if a user's device is not connected to the Internet or you're not certain if it's 
connected. 

Create a :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` object and set its
``type: "openImmediately"``. This configuration opens a local {+realm+} 
immediately without attempting to sync with the server. The client continues  
attempting to connect with the server in the background.

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/sync-changes-between-devices.codeblock.sync-changes-between-devices-sync-changes-in-the-background-create-OpenRealmBehaviorObject.js

Author: i removed this as a separate example, and made it part of the example below in the section

In the :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>`, 
you must include include the ``user`` and ``partitionValue``.

.. example:: 

   The following example shows how to open a synced {+realm+} with with a 
   ``SyncConfiguration`` object that uses a predefined
   ``CarSchema`` :doc:`schema </sdk/node/examples/define-a-realm-object-model>`, 
   the currently logged in user, and a partition value of "MyPartition".

   .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/open-and-close-a-realm.codeblock.open-synced-realm-online-with-car-schema.js
      :language: javascript

.. _react-native-open-synced-realm-config:

Return After Timeout with Background Sync
`````````````````````````````````````````

If you don't need to sync all data before before returning, configure your SyncConfiguration
to include ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` each with
the same :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>`.  

Set the OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration to have ``type: 'downloadBeforeOpen'``, 
``timeOut: <time in milliseconds>`` and ``timeOutBehavior: 'openLocalRealm'``.

> These properties make ``Realm.open()`` return at the end of the ``timeOut`` period, and open a local {+realm+}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These properties force the ``Realm.open()`` method to return an open {+realm+} after ``timeOut`` milliseconds, or when the {+realm+} has completely downloaded -- whichever comes first. 
```

Not sure what the term "local realm" means in this context -- in the other SDKs, realms are either synced or local, they never flux between the two. It sounds like this actually opens a synced realm with incomplete data, not a local realm... so we should probably avoid confusing readers with the "local realm" term.

Reviewer: Additionally, we should make it clear that if the realm downloads completely before the timeout, it'll open before the timeout is reached.

> Syncing between local data and the server continues in the background. For example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the {+realm+} doesn't finish downloading before the timeout, the initial realm sync continues in the background. For example: 
```
Just to match up with the explanation in the above sentence, which now talks about timeout and complete download situations.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/open-and-close-a-realm.codeblock.open-synced-realm-config.js
  :language: javascript

This configuration is also useful if you're attempting to sync in an environment 
where it's uncertain if the user has an Internet connection. The client attempts 
to sync until the end of the the ``timeOut`` period, and then opens the local {+realm+},

> even if the it never connects to the server. 

Reviewer: Personally I'd say that this paragraph just retreads information we've already conveyed -- we can probably eliminate it entirely. Applications are either OK with incomplete data, or they aren't -- whether the user may or may not have an internet connection doesn't impact that design choice. And the second sentence is now explained above.

Author: yep i think your suggestions render this bit irrelevant

.. example::
  
  The following example shows opening a synced {+realm+} with a 
  ``Configuration`` object using a predefined ``Car`` :doc:`schema </sdk/node/examples/define-a-realm-object-model>`, 
  the currently logged in user, a partition value of "MyPartition", and a 
  :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>`. The SyncConfiguration includes  
  ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` and ``newRealmFileBehavior`` set to allow the user 
  to work with the local {+realm+} if the device is doesn't fully sync within the ``timeOut``
  period of 1000 milliseconds.  

  .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/open-and-close-a-realm.codeblock.open-synced-realm-offline-with-car-schema.js
    :language: javascript

.. warning:: 

>    If you are attempting to synchronize a {+realm+} while not connected to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When attempting to synchronize a {+realm+} while not connected to 
```
Passive -> active voice.

   the Internet, you must pass ``Realm.open()`` a :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>`
   object with ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior``. If you 
   don't include these properties, ``Realm.open()`` continues trying

>    to connect to the server indefinitely without opening. 

Reviewer: I wonder if we should consider moving this information to the introduction of this section, instead of hosting it in a warning after a lengthy example and a significant amount of body text. Maybe we can combine it with the default behaviour explanation above?

Author: moving to the end of the intro for `Open a Synced Realm`, right before the `Open a Synced Realm While Online` content.

   
   Refer to the :ref:`Open a Synced Realm While Offline <node-open-a-synced-realm-while-offline>`
   documentation for more information about connecting to your offline {+realm+}. 

.. _react-native-open-a-synced-realm-while-offline:

Open a Synced Realm While Offline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If a user's device is not connected to the Internet or you're not certain if it's 
connected, you must use  a a :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` that includes ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` 

> properties. 

Reviewer: Interesting alternative example -- I wonder if the "while offline" and "after timeout" cases are misleading users here, though. The way I see it, they really both belong in the "while offline" category.... but we should recommend "with timeout" for applications that would *prefer* fetching of initial data, and "immediately" for applications that don't need initial data (for instance, an application that doesn't need anything from the server, like a notepad or a todo list).

Mainly because right now they draw a false dichotomy -- I don't think these cases are truly that distinct, so we should use examples to make it clearer to users where they should use which behaviour.

Reviewer: I think this is a good way of breaking this concept down. When it comes to options like this, I think the tasks we chose were a little too abstract for the topic. This seems like a significant improvement -- take a stab at refactoring it to match this!

Create a :js-sdk:`OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration>` object and set its
``type`` to ``"openImmediately"``. This configuration opens a local {+realm+} 
immediately without attempting to sync with the server. The client continues  
attempting to connect with the server in the background.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/sync-changes-between-devices.codeblock.sync-changes-between-devices-sync-changes-in-the-background-create-OpenRealmBehaviorObject.js
      :language: javascript

Create a :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object, which must
include the ``sync`` property defining a :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration
<Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` object. Set this
``OpenRealmBehaviorConfiguration`` object as the value for
the ``newRealmFileBehavior`` and ``existingRealmFileBehavior`` fields of the
``SyncConfiguration``. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/sync-changes-between-devices.codeblock.sync-changes-between-devices-sync-changes-in-the-background-create-config.js
      :language: javascript

> Finally,  call :js-sdk:`Realm.open() <Realm.html#.open>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, call :js-sdk:`Realm.open() <Realm.html#.open>`
```
Extra space.

to open the local {+realm+} and attempt syncing with the server in the background. 

.. _react-native-close-a-realm:

Close a Realm
-------------

.. include:: /includes/js-close-a-realm.rst

.. .. _react-native-local-realm-configuration:

.. Local Realm Configuration
.. -------------------------

.. .. _react-native-provide-a-subset-of-classes-to-a-realm:

.. Provide a Subset of Classes to a Realm

> .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: Can we delete these commented out sections? We can always pull them from git history if we need them.
